---
layout: post
title: Static Analysis Seminar (SAS)
date:   2015-08-28 03:18:00
permalink: /sas/
group: teaching
---

### Course Description ###
One can ask many interesting questions about a given program such as:

* Does this program terminate?
* Can the pointer p be null?
* Will the value of the variable `v` be read in the future?
* Do the variables `x` and `y` point to the same location in the heap?
* Was the loop counter initialized before it is used?
* Could the secret data pointed to by `s` leak to some unauthorized party?
* Can method `foo` call method `bar`? And which method `bar` could be called? 

The answer to all those interesting questions about a program is undecidable as stated by Rice’s Theorem. However, 
people usually use static program analysis to get approximate answers to those questions, which works well in many 
cases. For example, many bug finding tools (e.g., FindBugs) use various static analysis techniques to detect, and 
possibly fix, bugs in a given program. Additionally, security analysis tools (e.g., AppScan, FlowDroid) also use static 
analysis to detect security vulnerabilities and data leakages. In this course, we will read research papers that explain 
the basics of static analysis as well as the state-of-the-art. 


### General Information ###
* **Organizational Meeting:** Tuesday 13.10.15 -- 9:50 to 11:30 -- Fraunhofer SIT, Raum München
* **Class Meetings:** Tuesdays -- 9:50 to 11:30 -- Fraunhofer SIT, Raum München
* **Web Page:** <a href="{{ "/sas/" | prepend: site.url }}" target="_blank">"{{ "/sas/" | prepend: site.url }}"</a>
* **Instructor:** Karim Ali (see contact information below)
* **Office Hours:** by appointment
* **Teaching Assistant:** Johannes Späth

### Evaluation Criteria ###


### Schedule ###

