---
layout: post
title: Designing Code Analysis Frameworks (DECAF @ ISSTA'16)
date:   2016-03-14 15:15:00
permalink: /decaf
group: service
---

# Call for Participation #
Designing a code-analysis framework is not an easy task. Design decisions that framework builders took more than a decade ago are still affecting the way many researchers implement their static analyses today. However, modern software systems are often heterogeneous and gigantic in size, employing many programming languages and APIs. Further, modern program analyses tend to be user-driven and interactive, as opposed to traditional program analyses that were more targeted towards whole-program optimizations. As analysis framework authors, we have recently been discussing the various strengths and weaknesses of our systems regarding the needs of modern analyses and analyzed software systems. One idea expressed was perhaps to start over with a new analysis framework that could incorporate into its design all the lessons we have learnt from current frameworks.

Expanding on that theme, we would like to gather the minds behind various code-analysis frameworks (e.g. Soot, Wala, Doop, Chord, and OPAL) for two primary purposes. The first is to discuss the lessons they have learned throughout the process of designing and then using those frameworks. The second is to plan the future, as a community of users of these frameworks, by identifying our wish-list if we are about to design our ideal code-analysis framework, and to discuss conflicting goals and tradeoffs.

Specifically, we invite those of us who build core static-analysis infrastructure to present core ideas and lessons learnt from their systems. The goal is to have informal talks to highlight what has worked well and the lessons that we could learn from each other. If you are interested, please send your talk proposal (talk title, talk abstract, and short bio of speaker) to <a href="mailto:{{ site.email }}">{{ site.title }}</a> by May 10.

# Important Dates #
* **Submissions:**   Tuesday, May 10, 2016
* **Notification:**  Tuesday, May 17, 2016
* **Workshop Date:** Sunday, July 17, 2016
* **Venue:**         <a href="https://issta2016.cispa.saarland/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/aula.jpg" target="_blank">CISPA building</a>, Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany (co-located with <a href="https://issta2016.cispa.saarland/workshops/" target="_blank">ISSTA '16</a>)

# Organizing Committee #
* <a href="http://karimali.ca" target="_blank">Karim Ali</a>, TU Darmstadt
* <a href="http://bodden.de" target="_blank">Eric Bodden</a>, Paderborn University & Fraunhofer IEM
* <a href="http://researcher.watson.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=us-dolby" target="_blank">Julian Dolby</a>, IBM Research
* <a href="http://smaragd.org" target="_blank">Yannis Smaragdakis</a>, University of Athens