---
layout: post
title: 6th ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on the State Of the Art in Program Analysis (SOAP @ PLDI '17)
date:   2017-01-30 08:22:00
permalink: /soap
group: service
---

# Description
Static and dynamic analysis techniques and tools for Java and other programming languages have received widespread attention for a long time. The application domains of these analyses range from core libraries to modern technologies such as web services and Android applications. Over time, analysis frameworks, such as Soot, WALA, Chord, DOOP, and Soufflé, have been developed to better support techniques for optimizing programs, ensuring code quality, and assessing security and compliance.

{{ site.excerpt_separator }}

Sponsored by ACM SIGPLAN, the Soot community brought together its members and other researchers by organizing the International Workshop on the State Of the Art in Java Program Analysis (SOAP), since 2012 in conjunction with PLDI. The presentations and discussions have helped share new developments and shape new innovations in program analysis. SOAP 2017 will enhance that positive experience with a broadened scope to also emphasize other analysis tools than Soot and other programming languages than Java.

For SOAP 2017, we invite contributions and inspirations from researchers and practitioners working with program analysis. We are particularly interested in exciting analysis framework ideas, innovative designs, and analysis techniques, including preliminary results of work in progress. We will also focus on the state of the practice for program analysis by encouraging submissions by industrial participants.  We want to see your tools -- tool demonstration submissions are encouraged. The workshop agenda will continue its tradition of lively discussions on extensions of existing frameworks, development of new analyses and tools, and how program analysis is used in real-world scenarios.

The workshop will take one day and will feature invited talks by leading members of the program analysis community, presentations of all accepted refereed papers, and time for open discussion.

# Important Dates
* **Submissions:**   March 15, 2017
* **Notification:**  April 13, 2017
* **Camera-ready:**  April 27, 2017
* **Workshop date:** June 18, 2017

# Submissions
Submissions should be four to six-page papers in ACM sig-alternate style. Possible submissions include, but are not limited to:

* A report on a novel implementation of a program analysis, with a focus on practical details or optimization techniques for obtaining precision and performance.
* A new research tool, data, and other artifacts, that showcase early implementations of novel program analysis concepts, as well as mature prototypes.
* A description of a new analysis component, for example, front-ends or abstract domains.
* A report describing an innovative tool built on top of an existing framework.
* A compelling use case for a feature that is not yet supported by existing analysis tools, with good examples and an informal design of the proposed feature.
* An idea paper proposing the integration of existing program analyses to answer interesting novel questions about programs, for example in IDEs.
* An experience report on the use of a program analysis framework.
* New this year are Tools Demo papers: A description of a program analysis tool and screenshots of main parts of the demo.

Submissions must be handed in as PDF using EasyChair: [https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=soap2017](https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=soap2017)

# Publication
Accepted papers will appear in the ACM Digital Library.

# Invited speakers
* Julian Dolby, IBM Research
* Sukyoung Ryu, KAIST

# Organizers
* [Cristina Cifuentes](https://labs.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=labs:bio:0:21), Oracle Labs
* [Karim Ali](/), University of Alberta

# Program Committee
* Bor-Yuh Evan Chang, University of Colorado Boulder
* François Gauthier, Oracle Labs
* Alessandra Gorla, IMDEA Software Institute
* Ciera Jaspan, Google
* Magnus Madsen, University of Waterloo
* Bernhard Scholz, University of Sydney
