---
layout: post
title: Interested in joining Maple?
date:   2024-01-01 08:00:00
permalink: /apply
group: students
---
Please note that I am **NOT** currently accepting students at the University of Alberta. This information is for prospective Maplers at NYUAD. Please also note that NYUAD does not currently have a Master's program.

## Postdoctoral Researchers

- Prospective postdoctoral researchers should have obtained their PhD with a focus on **Programming Languages** in the last 0-3 years.
- First, please check [https://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/about/careers/postdoctoral-and-research.html](https://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/about/careers/postdoctoral-and-research.html) for my advertised positions. If you find open positions, please submit your application directly at the correspondong job posting.
- If you do not find open positions and want to inquire about potential openings, please email me with a copy of your CV and some brief info about your PhD degree and doctoral research.

## Research Assistants

- Research assistants are those who have already obtained a Bachelor or Master's degree and wish to gain some research experience. 
- First, please check [https://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/about/careers/postdoctoral-and-research.html](https://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/about/careers/postdoctoral-and-research.html) for my advertised positions. If you find open positions, please submit your application directly at the correspondong job posting.
- If you do not find open positions and want to inquire about potential openings, please email me with a copy of your CV and some brief info about your background (i.e., education, industry/research experience) and research interests.

## PhD Students

* NYUAD offers a [Global PhD Fellowship Program](https://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/admissions/graduate/global-phd-student-fellowships-in-science.html) through agreements with two Computer Science doctoral programs in NYU New York. The programs generally involve one year of classwork in NYU New York followed by three to four years of research in NYU Abu Dhabi. If selected, the doctorate is fully funded under the NYU Abu Dhabi's Global PhD Student Fellowship.
* To pursue a PhD position in my lab, please submit a standard PhD application to one or both Computer Science doctoral programs in NYU New York:
    * The Computer Science and Engineering department via the [NYU Tandon School of Engineering](https://engineering.nyu.edu/admissions/graduate). 
    * The Courant Institute PhD application via the [NYU Graduate School of Arts and Science](https://cs.nyu.edu/home/phd/admission.html).

    The choice of the program will depend on you. When you apply, you will be considered by the faculty in the NYU New York program as well as the NYU Abu Dhabi program. There is no separate application for the Global PhD Student Fellowship; all interested PhD applicants will be considered. Not all PhD application forms specifically ask about candidates' interest in NYUAD. You may indicate your interest in the NYUAD Global PhD by referencing NYUAD, an NYUAD faculty member, or an NYUAD research group in your personal statement (or other application documents). 
* Please be advised that the PhD application deadlines are typically early or mid December of the preceding year. If you miss the deadline, it may still be possible to submit an application, but you should contact the relevant NYU New York department. 

For more information about the Global Ph.D. Student Fellowship, please contact [nyuad.graduateadmissions@nyu.edu](mailto:nyuad.graduateadmissions@nyu.edu).
